---
title: PARCH at Droidcon Lisbon 2024
date: 2024-09-16
categories: [Talks]
tags: [PARCH]
pin: true
image:
  path: /assets/posts/20240916-droidcon/dclx24.jpeg
  alt: PARCH talk in Droidcon Lisbon 2024
---

September arrived and with it [Droicon Lisbon 2024](https://www.lisbon.droidcon.com/){:target="_blank"}. 

Once again like [last year](../dclx23-coupling-cohesion) I had the luck to be one of the selected speakers.
This time I prepared a talk about _PARCH_ the reactive and composable architecture that we have been using at Volvo 
Cars to build [Volvo Cars App](https://www.volvocars.com/us/volvo-cars-app/){:target="_blank"}.

Talking in [Droicon Lisbon 2024](https://www.lisbon.droidcon.com/){:target="_blank"} was (again) a great experience. 
Fun, great talks, great audience, excellent organization and in a city that it is always a pleasure to visit!

Timing is everything they say ... well, once I started my presentation ... timing played against me for a bit. 
Five minutes in the presentation, and I had the "misfortune" of facing a macbook pop-up "Software Update overdue" that 
was blocking my computer (I mean ... what are the chances ... right?). I manage to dismiss it ... but only for a couple
of minutes before it came back (note to self: keep your software up to date!). 
Eventually, a member from the audience lent me his computer (Thank you so much!) and then I was able to complete the 
full talk with no other issues.

Even with these technological hic ups, the full audience stayed and I believe they were able to get some good impressions
from PARCH, receiving enough questions and interest after the talk till the point that I am planning to write a series 
of posts getting into detail on how to apply it for a sample app that will be available in 
[github](https://github.com/dekoupled) (coming up soon...).

You can find the keynotes in the [downloads section](#-downloads).

---

##  PARCH Building the blocks of a composable architecture

### Abstract
Jetpack Compose has make it easy for android developers to architect their ui solutions into simpler modular blocks.

Within PARCH Architecture, we bring this modular approach to the next level, were each component provides a full 
solution of its simplified problem and not just the ui part of it.

Based on the Single Responsibility Principle, this architecture enables the development of focused components that solve
a single deconstructed and simplified problem, favouring their reusability, improving consistency across your app and 
making it easy to provide complex experiences by composing simpler and more basic components.

{% include embed/youtube.html id='lyeeCyyYUqg?start=16951' %}

### <i class="fa-solid fa-download"></i> Downloads

<a href="/assets/posts/20240916-droidcon/dclx24 - PARCH.key"
title="download PARCH.key"
download="[dekoupled][Chiaradia Juan][dclx24] PARCH.key">
<i class="fa-solid fa-download"></i> - download Keynote presentation <i class="fa-solid fa-file"></i>
</a>






